# Artificial Intelligence Policy
**Budapest International Model United Nations**
**Budapest, 2026**
*The following document is an annex of the Rules of Procedure of Budapest International*
*Model United Nations 2026, and contains the Secretariat’s expectations on conduct*
*concerning the use of Artificial Intelligence.*
In order to maintain academic integrity and prioritize critical thinking, problem resolution,
and cooperation among our delegates, the Secretariat has set the following rules about the use
of AI:
## Position papers:
Plagiarism is a serious offense, in the position papers you are expected to cite your sources
clearly and precisely, using footnotes. You may use AI for research and minor editing
purposes during your preparation, however position papers containing information without
reputable sources will be flagged, and depending on the severity of plagiarism, delegates may
be ruled out from awards.
## Speeches:
All speeches delivered in the committee must be written and prepared by the delegates. In
case the Chairs find that a delegate relies too heavily on reading out generated texts during
their speeches, the delegate will be asked to cease this behaviour. At BIMUN, our priority is
creating a healthy learning environment, in which delegates should not be afraid of making
mistakes during their speeches, but rather be open to human connection at the podium.
3. Working papers and operative clauses:
If the Presidency deems that an operative clause or working paper has been generated by AI,
possible consequences for the delegate may be the following:
a. warning from the Chair,
b. referral to the Secretariat or Approval Panel,
c. disqualification from awards.
We understand that many delegates like to use AI to help them format the operative clauses
properly. However, we would like to kindly ask you to refer to the example resolutions
provided by your chairs with regards to formatting in order to avoid false flagging of
misconduct.
During the debate, the Chairs should prioritize discussing human-written work over AI. We
understand that in many cases it is difficult to distinguish between the two, and we would like
to avoid situations in which delegates feel threatened or falsely accused of academic
misconduct. This is why we would like to ask delegates to think critically when using online
sources, it is also advised to create a list of sources and citations for the entirety of research,
not just the position paper.